Now we are going to look at how to remove an extra blank page
that was added to the product catalog PDF.
For this,
you will be using the removePage method of the
PDDocument class. Back to the code editor.
I've already added a method with the code to load the PDF document here.
So if we look at the product catalog PDF,
you can see that there are two pages in it.
And the last page is a blank page.
Now, if we want to get rid of this, how can we do that?
You can simply call the removePage method on the
document catalog. And to this method,
you should pass in the page number that you want removed.
Once again, the numbers are 0‑based,
meaning the first page will have a number of 0.
In our case,
we need to pass in 1, which will remove the second page. Print out that the
page removal was successful, and save the document once again.
Now,
if you call this method and run the application and inspect the product catalog,
you can see that the blank page is now gone. Excellent.
You can see how simple it is to remove a page from a PDF document.
But wait, did something go wrong?
Did you forget to save the document after loading and
adding a new page to it and after loading and removing a
page? Let's go back to the code.
What if you didn't call the save method here after
loading and adding a new page?
Well, that new page will never get added.
So let's try commenting the save and run it.
As you can see, the page that we added is not there.
Also,
when removing a page, if you forgot to call save what
would happen? Let's see what happens.
You can see that the PDF currently has two pages in it.
If you do not call save and run the application, now you can see
that still the blank page at the end is there.
The reason is that you simply forgot to save after
removing the page. So make sure you save the PDF document after doing any modification to it.